#summary Let's study the bug we've met.

=== Introduction ===

Unfortunately, the WEAV you've gotten is not stabilized yet. We are very sorry about it, and we beg your help to make WEAV stable.

==== Brief Suggestion ====
  * *If it is `segmentation fault`,* please follow *Log Message* section below. As it guides you, please print all the messages to the screen, and send me the last few lines of log message and the log file which was specified by `DEBUG_FILE` in your `config.in`.
  * *Else,* please send me the log file which was specified by `DEBUG_FILE` in your `config.in`.

=== Bug's ===
  # *Segmentation Fault:* I hate this one, but still there can be the case. To make matters worse, you may not find where the `segmentation fault` was happened by log message because the file buffer could not be flushed properly and closed properly. In this case, it will be better to see all the messages from the screen. Normally, you can see more messages if you print the messages to your screen. Please check the following *Log Message* section below.
  # If it is not the *Segmentation Fault* error, it might be easy to find.
    * Memory Problem: WEAV would exit when it uses more memory than you specified in `config.in` with `MEMORY_LIMIT`. Or, if you don't have less memory than you specified, it might produce *segmentation fault*. Originally, if you don't change `MEMORY_LIMIT` part, it would be 9000MB (8.79GB).

=== Log Messages ===
You can find log messages from the file you've set with the field name `DEBUG_FILE` in your config.in file. If you want to see all the messages from your screen, you need to change your make file.

Your WEAV directory might be like follows.
{{{
> ls
config.in  debug_message/  Source0.2.9.3/  test_read_set/
data/      makefile        src/            weav*
}}}
Let's go in to *src/* directory.
{{{
> cd src
> ls
algorithm.c  common.h      edge_table.h  gpl-3.0.txt     perm.o      uniform.o
align*       config.c      edge_table.o  graph_travel.c  read_set.c  utils.c
align.c      config.h      em.c          graph_travel.h  read_set.h  utils.h
alignment.c  config.o      em.h          graph_travel.o  read_set.o  utils.o
alignment.h  copy.c        em.o          makefile        tags        weav*
alignment.o  del/          euler.c       perm.c          uniform.c
align.o      edge_table.c  euler.o       perm.h          uniform.h
}}}
Let's change makefile. You can find the following line from the makefile.
{{{
CFLAGS =    -ggdb -Wall -O2 -D__RELEASE__
}}}
Change it like below.
{{{
CFLAGS =    -ggdb -Wall -O2 #-D__RELEASE__
}}}
And, then 'make clean', change directory to WEAV, and 'make' it again.
{{{
> make clean
> cd ..
> ls
config.in  debug_message/  Source0.2.9.3/  test_read_set/
data/      makefile        src/            weav*
> make
}}}
Actually, WEAV produces many many log messages, but we 
intentionally mute them.